.TH RAYCONVERT 1 "January 2026" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rayconvert \- convert a file or batch of images/videos using ffmpeg
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rayconvert
.RI ( FILE | DIR | images | videos )
.RI [ in=DIR | -i DIR | --input=DIR ]
.B to
.RI FORMAT
.RI [ out=DIR | -o DIR | --output=DIR ]
.RI [ -ap | --append ]
.RI [ -r | --replace ]
.RI [ -m | --mute ]
.RI [ -fm | --fully-mute ]
.PP
.B rayconvert
.BR --help " | " --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
rayconvert converts either a single file or a set of files (images/videos) using ffmpeg.
By default it keeps originals (no deletion). Use \fB--replace\fR to delete originals after a successful conversion.
If no output directory is provided, output defaults to the input directory.
.SH RULES
.IP \[bu] 2
The first non-option argument is required and must be FILE, DIR, images, or videos.
.IP \[bu]
DIR is treated as an input directory for images (so \fBrayconvert . to jpg\fR is valid).
.IP \[bu]
The keyword \fBto\fR is required (case-insensitive).
.IP \[bu]
FORMAT is required (case-insensitive). A leading dot is allowed. \fBjpeg\fR is treated as \fBjpg\fR.
.IP \[bu]
If \fBvideos\fR is used, FORMAT must be a video format (e.g. mp4/mkv/webm). Image formats are rejected.
.IP \[bu]
If \fBimages\fR or DIR is used, FORMAT must be an image format (e.g. jpg/png/webp). Video formats are rejected.
.IP \[bu]
Paths accept quotes via your shell, and "~" is expanded (e.g. in="~/Pictures").
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR in=DIR ", " -i " DIR, " --input=DIR ", " --input " DIR
Input directory (for images/videos modes). Defaults to current directory.
.TP
.BR out=DIR ", " -o " DIR, " --output=DIR ", " --output " DIR
Output directory. Defaults to the input directory.
.TP
.BR -ap ", " --append
If an output filename already exists, choose a unique name instead of overwriting it.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --replace
Delete the original file after a successful conversion.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mute
Hide ffmpeg output and print simplified messages.
.TP
.BR -fm ", " --fully-mute
Print nothing at all (implies --mute). Exit code still indicates success/failure.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 if all conversions succeed, 1 if any conversion fails, 2 on usage error.
.SH SEE ALSO
ffmpeg(1)